What does 'fail fast' mean in terms of exception handling? Why is it a good practice?
How to find the middle element of singly linked list in O(n)?
What is a linked list? How to find if a linked list has a loop?
What is the Big O time complexity of the common operations in an ArrayList, LinkedList, HashMap? And of a bubble sort, quicksort, finding items in a Binary Search tree?
How does HashMap work? 
Why is it important for keys in a map to have an immutable type? (Consider String for example.)
What is a garbage collector, in a nutshell?
What is casting? What is the difference between up vs downcasting?
Which order should we catch the exceptions? Why?	
What is a class?
What is an object?
What is a constructor?
Do we require parameter for constructors? 
What is an interface?
What are access modifiers?
What is data hiding?
Can a static method use non-static members?
What is the difference between hiding a static method and overriding an instance method?
Define the following terms: Instantiation, Attribute, Method.
Could we access a static variable (or method) from a non-static method? Why?
Could we access a non-static variable (or method) from a static method? Why? 
How many instances you have of a static variable of a given class? 
Why is it not a good practice to write a lot of static methods?
What are the features of static attributes and static methods of a class? What are the benefits, when to use them?
What is the ‘this’ reference?
What are base class, subclass and superclass?
Draw an object oriented family (as entities, with relations) on the whiteboard.
Difference between overloading and overriding?
What are the Object Oriented Principles? Explain the concepts with realistic examples!
What is method overloading?
What is method overriding?
Explain how object oriented languages attempt to simplify memory management for Programmers.
Explain the “Single Responsibility” principle! 
What is an object oriented program? Explain, show.
How do you make a class immutable? What do you need to watch out for?
How many instances can be created for an abstract class? 
What is autoboxing and unboxing?
If you have a variable, that shall store a positive whole number between 0 and 200, what primitive type would you use to store it?
What is the "golden rule" of variable scoping in Java? What is the lifetime of variables?
What is the purpose of the ‘equals()’ method?
What is the difference between '==' and 'equals()'?
What does the ‘static’ keyword mean?
Why is the main() method declared as static? Explain.
What is the default access modifier in a class?
What is the JVM?
What is the difference between the JRE and the JDK?
What is the difference between long and Long?
Can a long store bigger numbers than a Long? 
What kind of packages do you know under java.util.* ? Bring at least 3 examples.
What are the access modifiers in Java? Which one could we use for class?
Can an “enum” contain methods in Java? Explain.
When would you use a private/protected/public attribute? What is the difference?
How do you prevent developers from subclassing a class?
How do you prevent developers from overriding a method in a subclass?
How do you prevent developers from changing the value of a variable?
Think about money ;) How would you store a currency value, that shall support decimal parts? Think it through again, and try to think outside of the box!
What happens if you try to call something, that you have no access to, because of data hiding?
What happens if you try to delete/drop an item from an array, while you are iterating over it?
What happens if you try to delete/drop/add an item from a List, while you are iterating over it?
What happens if you try to add an item to the end of an array, while you are iterating over it?
If you need to access the iterator variable after a for loop, how would you do it?
Which interfaces extend the Collection interface in Java. Which classes?
What is the connection between equals() and hashCode()? How are they used in HashMap?
What is the difference between checked exceptions and unchecked exceptions? Could you bring example for each?
What is Error in Java and how does it relate to Exception?
When does 'finally' block run? What it is used for? Could you give an example from your projects when you would use 'finally'?
What is the largest number you can work with in Java?
When you use method overriding, can you change the access level of the method, from protected to public? Why?When you use method overriding, can you change the access level of the method, from public to protected? Why?
Can the main method be overridden? Explain your answer!
When you use method overriding, can you throw fewer exceptions in the subclass than in the parent class? Why?
When you use method overriding, can you throw more exceptions in the subclass than in the parent class? Why? 
What does "final" mean in case of a variable, method or a class?
What is the super keyword?
What are “generics”? When to use? Show examples.
What is the benefit of having “generic” containers?
Given two Java programs on two different machines. How can you communicate between the two? What are the possible ways?
What is an annotation? What can be annotated and how? Show examples.
How can you connect your application to a database server? What are the possible ways?
What do you know about database normalization?
